Welcome back to the Good Talk, the show where we discuss what's hot, what's Grot, and everything between in the wide world of Warhammer. It is Thursday, the first Thursday of the month, which means while these tactic sessions are normally only for the members, we'd like to welcome everyone into the session. And these are, of course, uh moments where we talk about uh events, we talk about tactics, we talk about the meta, we do list reviews, things like that each and every Thursday before our Thursday game. It's a great time. We'd love to have you as part of the team. My name is Adrian. I'm joined today, of course, by Brian Loba. And behind the keys, it's well, us. It's actually just us. Yeah, it's just us. What is up, everybody? Welcome on in. It's great to see all these shining faces. I mean, we've got a whole slew of new captains. So, I want to big say a big thank you to each and every one of them. We've got uh Thank you, Scrippus. Welcome Alex Ras Rexputin Zadok Aspenol Corey Pearson Sami Cook Benson Daniel Boutri and Dra Darra Carol welcome everybody and thank you so much for becoming captains check out all the behind the scenes content there's more than ever beautiful time so we're here today I haven't even had all my coffee yeah I uh I've like started sipping my coffee I haven't actually a little sip sip but you had an you had an early morning long Yeah. I don't like super hot coffee though. That's I don't like it when it scalds my tongue. So, it needs to sit like I have it in like a thermos. Why do you have a thermos then? Because it keeps it hot for like a longer period of time. I don't have like only an hour to drink my coffee cuz then it gets to that point where like once it starts to not be scalding hot, you get like 20 minutes to drink it before it becomes cold. That's fair. And I don't want that. You know what? I'll take it. Uh well, welcome in everybody. We're going to be talking about Teams events today. We have done streams about them before uh and our kind of journey into trying them out, learning about them, and honestly coming to really love them. Uh today it's going to be a bit of a guide around um how it works, recommendations, our experiences, things like that. We also are coming off the back of a team's event this last weekend where we spoiler. Should I spoil how it ends? No, you can't I can't spoil it. Okay, you can't spoil it. It was a It was a quite a ride. So, we're going to take you through that. We're going to go through all the pairings and talk about that. If you have more questions, of course, let us know. Um, we can't cover every single detail. So, if there's a detail you want to know about, just let us know. We'd love to hear from you. Uh, so welcome in everybody. Uh, Saul, sorry to hear that your dice went Adrian on you. Uh, but I still like your list. I think it's great. So, but it's a ton of fun. And what's up, Shane was part of our team. Uh, Monir won. We didn't get to play, but I saw you. I recognize our game. Um, yeah, Mon was out there hunting knights. And boy, there were a lot of knights. Yeah, there were. Oh my god, we were amateurs. We only had one of our teammates as an ice. Honestly, we probably should have had more, frankly. Yes. Uh, cool. Well, folks, let's just dive on in and get into it. So, first off, we want to start talking about teams tournaments and what they what they are. What does it actually means when we talk about teams events? Um, a lot of people, you know, we we we use this term, but we're not entirely sure what it actually means. So, let's uh take a look. Boom. All right. So, when we're talking about teams events, what does this mean? Um, usually, well, I'll say this. Yeah, usually it's teams either five or eight. And that is for the purposes of how the matchups get gets paired. Essentially, if you do other numbers, it gets wacky, gets weird. This is just what is done, right? Um, usually we're talking about the WTC format. that is the um primary teams format that is used around the world originated in uh Europe and is kind of everywhere now. You still play individual games. This is a team sport. Uh I don't even know equivalent. I mean I was I'm gymnast so it's like gymnastics you're not it's not all three of you on the balance be at the same time. Um it's you do your individual things, you get your score and that contributes to overall team score in that event or that round or whatever. Close enough. It's a little different, but um and then you play with differential scoring, which means the amount of points in which you win or lose by actually does matter. And that will it's not a strict win or loss kind of ratio. We'll dive into that that a bit more. Uh and then finally, there's a detailed pairings process by which you and the opposing team get matched up. Anything I missed about? Um I don't think so. Uh with the pairings process, you have a lot of control. uh you can have a lot of control over what you and your teammates play, also what your opponents play into. So, there is a lot of like strategy that goes into it and it's not necessarily the easiest thing to do if you are inexperienced in it. Yeah. Um but it's definitely a really cool thing to learn and I've had a lot of fun doing it. I've been doing teams events for the last few years now. Um and most of the time whenever we do pairings, I'm involved in the process of doing the pairings with my captain. Uh so it's always a great time and it's always very stressful. So if you have a captain that does the pairings for you, thank them because it is a very very difficult job to try to get everybody what they want, but understand that again it's not easy. So it it's a really really difficult job and it's an important job. So yeah, definitely thank whoever is willing to put themselves out there and uh big thank you to Brian for being our captain and our pairing person. You did phenomenally. Um I I was convinced literally after round one. I again we're going to go through the whole thing but I was like wow this guy you totally you get this process it's pretty amazing so uh that is teams tournament what it is just kind of generally speaking u it's like wrestling okay yeah it is like wrestling I I was going to say like wrestling but I figured not a lot of people wrestled but it's a very similar thing like you're on a team you wrestle individually like you obviously not everybody's wrestling at the same time it's a very I used to say when I was in high school it's a very it's the loneliest team sport you'll ever play yeah exactly and this is kind of the same thing you know what that checks out I'm into Uh so that's just broadly what teams is. Uh now uh let's talk a bit about army selection. What that means for an event. Um generally speaking in teams you are not allowed to repeat books. It means some slightly different things in different time periods of of Warhammer. Um and it means every once in a while there's an exception of this rule. I've seen it. I've seen it done. Uh but generally speaking you cannot repeat books. So this means for example if you are playing knights for example and you want to have some Imperial agents then nobody else can have an imperial agents and have imperial agents units and you certainly cannot play them as your primary army. Same if you have demons allied in you got those nerdings in your chaos knights list you cannot have a demons player now uh and you can imagine the impact that has on the meta. Y there are some exceptions to this like Adrian was saying so things like uh Imperial agents specifically you can't take more than one instance of of any codeex. However, some of the units that are within that CEX exist in other codexes as well, but they're different. Yeah. So like the Imperial Agents Grey Knights, for example, are different from the Index Grey Knights. So therefore, if you were to take Imperial Agents Grey Knights, you could also take faction Grey Knights in the same team because they're not the same units data sheets rather. Uh in the same way you could do with sisters, right? So our Knights player had sisters in his army in his list. You could also take sisters as an army separately, which we did. Um so again, it's Make sure that you're aware of when you go into an event if they're going to allow that to happen. If they're not going to allow that to happen, most of the time they will because that's generally speaking the the rule by and large, but just make sure you're aware of it before you go into it. It's a good thing to check on. And it's another thing to really kind of rotate your brain around because it's so easy to forget that this is an extra rule. You know, you're used to, oh, I always have my caladus or I always have this and then you're like you're getting closer to the date and you realize one of your teammates also has the same thing on their list and someone has to change. So, make sure that you include that discussion early on in the process. So, figure out what the event allows and then kind of discuss who needs it, who wants it, things like that. You kind of you got to share the toys in this one. Yeah, definitely. Which is interesting, and it kind of leads into the next point, which it generally allows for more builds, right? In in singles, um you have to be able to take on, you know, if you're really trying to compete, every army in the game, you have to be a take on all comers because you don't know who you're going to play against. Um things like that. in teams. Uh you're part of a team and you're going to have some control about what you play against. So that means you can play armies that maybe aren't the best or you can do a build that is a little bit more extreme or maybe in some cases honestly less extreme than what like the meta pick is right because of that. Uh that does come with a big asterisk of course. Yeah, 100%. Uh I think the biggest asterisk is in a fiveman teams. So, when we're talking about the the size of the events, usually it's five or eight. Fiveman teams, it's pretty much there's going to be five armies in the game that are very good and everybody's going to have some combination of at least three of those armies. Uh, in which case, you need to be able to deal with those five armies. Like, you as uh a team composition need to recognize like, all right, for us, for example, Death Guard, Imperial Knights, Chaos Knights, those three armies are going to be repeated across this event indefinitely. We're going to have to face those at some point, probably multiple times. So, we needed to make a team composition that could deal with those types of armies. And then the rest of our armies that can't really deal with those, we can skew into something else. Um, so again, that's for a fiveman team. You generally speaking, there's five armies. You know what they're going to be, you can plan for them. Eightman teams is where it gets really interesting, where it gets much more complicated for the pairings process because that's when you can start doing things like skew where you have, oh, I'll just take triple bane blade. Yeah, it it's not good into most things, but into the things it's good into, it was really good into them, you know? So like things like that exist in those types of metas when you have eightman teams. Also like Adrian saying, you can take bad armies, you know, and make them good in that setting and they can perform really well for that reason because you have much more control over what you're actually playing into. Yeah, absolutely. Well said. Uh let's see, checking out chat, Raphael says, "Tv2 live stream would be sick on the channel." That would be sick, actually. We did it one time with Liam and it was chaos, but it was a lot of fun, honestly. Uh, and yes, unfortunately with Marines, if you're based off of the Marine Codeex, generally this is one of the ones that sometimes changes in different editions, but you that's it. You don't get any other space marines unless they're completely separate like like great knights or whatever, you know, like blood angels would take away from generic space marines. Blood angels would also stop you from taking dark angels, stuff like that just because it's um all the same essentially. Yep. Exactly. They pull from the same units. So, you know, that is absolutely factor. Um, and then finally, each player can take on a role. So, uh, we talked about the differential scoring. Losing by just a little bit is fantastic. It is almost as good as winning. In fact, it generally is because of the differential scoring. If you just barely lose or you just barely win, that's probably going to be considered a tie in the overall uh ranking. So, you don't necessarily need to be always the highest score. There's often going to be, you know, meta monsters, things that nobody wants to play against, which we'll talk about. And sometimes someone just needs to jump on that grenade and try to score as many points as possible or frankly just make it so that someone else doesn't have to play against it and then they can score high. You know, there are moments where you are trying to um get as close, you're kind of trying to close the different show as close as possible and that's the only goal there. There's times when you are trying to spike it as much as possible to get as many points perhaps because you know the rest of your team has tougher matchups, things like that. So you can kind of tailor to individual roles and and themes even before you know what team you're going up against. Yeah, 100%. 100%. Uh and then finally, the pairings process. Very interesting. Actually, I think I want to talk about differential while we're here. I think we should. So let's go over to this is the WTC document itself. Um let me scoot this over for y'all. So you can see here uh how the scoring actually works and maybe you want to walk us through this one a little bit. Yeah, for sure. Uh so in an individual team or sorry individual games for teams events, there is 20 potential points that you can score. Uh and you and your opponent both share these points. Yeah. So you're still scoring your game 0 to 100 just like you would play a normal game of Warhammer. But again, the difference in that score determines how many overall uh game points you'll actually get. Mhm. And so if you look here, so the difference in the victory points, if me and Adrian are playing a game and we score 90 or if I score 90, he scores 95, he technically won the game. However, if we look at the differential here, it's still zero to five, which means both of us will gain 10 points because we have technically tied that round. Uh so nobody wins because the differential is not big enough. And as you start going every five after that, so 6 to 10, 11 to 15, and so on so forth, you get Adrian will gain one point for every five he's above me, I will lose one point. So that's how you increase that differential. Uh it's really hard to get a 200 because you have to be winning by 50 points, which is a lot of points to be winning by. You know, if you put that in perspective, if you scored 95, more than 50 points even. Yeah. More than 55 or more than uh 50 points. If you scored 95 and I scored, I don't know, 46 right now, you get a 19-1. Wow. Like that's that's really hard to do. Um so those that can get it done, very impressive. Um, but yeah, so you guys share this 20 points and then at the end of it, whatever that total score is, like let's say Adrian scored 13 points in our game, which means I would score seven just because again there's only 20. He contributes 13 points to his team, I contribute seven points to my team, and then every other game that's going on does the same thing. And then at the end of the round, we add up all of our uh totals combined and then again, it's a differential, which you're not a huge fan of at the end of this, but it's a differential again to see who actually wins the round overall. Uh, and so in order to win the round overall, you have to have a three-point lead. So you have to score 53 team points. Yeah. In order to win the round, which means your opponent cannot score 48 points. Um, they have 47 is like 47 53 makes 100. That's how that works. Mhm. Uh, yeah, it's pretty interesting. I really like it. Uh, I know again you're not a huge fan of like the differential at the very end. You think it should just be total points, which is an interesting um idea. I I still have the same complaint. Yeah, you have the differential here and then you have the differentials of the teams and it just ends up becoming more and more and more abstract and kind of hard to track track that. Um, but it is what it is, you know. Um, and it is interesting because it means fighting for every point matters. It means that losing is still valuable. Uh, you know, you can be really excited about your teammate that lost 7 to 13 or 8 to 12 because that actually is only a four-point gap there between between the two and that's great, you know. Uh and again we'll have some specific examples uh a little bit later on this uh so that's that's the differential scoring there. Again if you have questions let us know folks. Uh pairings. So the way this works is teams get paired up much in the same way that players would get paired up in a singles event. Um at first it's random usually uh and then it's like Swiss pairings effectively. Uh so teams get matched up first of all. Then there's a drafting process where the teams go back and forth presenting certain players with their armies. Uh the uh the defender, who's usually the first army that you're putting down, often gets the choice of two opponents. So there's a bit of choice there that they have. Um and then terrain is I've seen it played both ways. Uh I've seen it done as a rolloff. Um I've seen it done as the defender gets to pick. Uh but generally speaking, there's this culture of in teams events, you have several different types of tables. I think usually you want like five or six, right? Yeah. Uh and those have different degrees of uh cover to them. So you have like in in this event it was one light board, one heavy board, three medium boards. Uh and the medium is obviously not totally equal. And this this is fun because it also acknowledges that there's many different ways to play the game and different armies want to play differently on different boards. And it just adds like another angle that yes can complicate things but um ultimately kind of makes for a more interesting process. Yeah, definitely. And it also allows you especially again make sure that you know the type of turn you're going to be playing on when you're going into the event because that will allow you to make lists for the event just like we talk about all the time. Even if you're going to a singles event, know the turn you're going to play on. Um, but in teams it allows you to have these armies like, "Hey, maybe I build to be the first defender in every single matchup." And when I win the roll off, I choose the light table every time and I'm just going to take a parking lot of guns. Or maybe I do the opposite where like I'm only going to have melee. I'm only going to charge. It's going to be a really high pressure list and I'm going to take heavy every single time, right? So like I won't get shot. I'll be able to jump from cover to covers. It allows you to play these armies that are not necessarily optimized if you're going to take them into a singles list, but in this format, it works really, really, really well. Yep, absolutely. Well said. Uh, this event was WTC terrain, so uh fairly dense, fairly covered theoretically. Of course, there's still the light boards and even the medium boards. It's not it's not that bad, but there are pretty actually the medium boards have pretty big firing length. They do they really do, but it certainly can factor into what list that you're playing. um things like that. So, let's let's walk through an example with everyone. Let's talk about some I lost it. It's all gone. Um do we want to do do you want to do our first pairing just as the example or Okay, cool. So, here we are. We're at the event day one. Oh, day one, round one, we get paired against Snake Boys. Yeah. Uh so, these are the team compositions. And so on our team, we had sisters, we had grey knights, we had guard, death guard, and imperial knights. So, uh, fairly standard, I would say. The only weird one I think is actually the sisters and the grey knights. I think those two are kind of like the strangest. Guard makes sense, Death Guard, Imperial Knights. Uh, but like these three or the the two at the end, Death Guard, Imperial Knights, you'll see those repeated basically everywhere. Um, and then team we're playing against obviously Death Watch, Grey Knights, Thousand Suns, Chaos Knights, and Imperial Knights. Now, there were only three Grey Knights at the event. We paired into one of them. I was obviously one of them. Um, but yeah, so this was our first round uh pairings and whenever I had sat down to to do the pairings, I wouldn't even talk about matrix matrices. Um, we've touched on this before, so I won't go too too in depth with it, but when you're doing a team event, it's pretty important to go and have a discussion with your team, some type of discussion with your team and hopefully write stuff down so that way you can remember because it's very easy to forget things in the moment. Yeah. Um, but to have a just a list of things that you your armies don't want to go into that your armies potentially do want to go to. So, what we like to do, we call them matrix matrices. I don't know if that's kind of just like what everybody calls matrix. It's like a I mean, it's a it's a you know, it's a spreadsheet spreadsheet. Um, but either way, so what we did, we went through our five lists and was like, "Hey, these are all the factions in the game. These are our what we think we'll do into these games. Like, I think this is a bad match up. I think this is a good matchup into these particular armies or whatever. I think this is like neutral/ kind of tie territory. Yeah. So, this I think is the most basic form of it, right? Ideally, what we would have wanted to do was to go into each individual team once they release the list. So, that way we can kind of tailor those matrices to the individual teams. Like, hey, when we play against this team, these are all their lists. These are my matchups in this team. We're going to this team, these are matchups in this team. Because those particular matrices would not match like the big overarching kind of just generic one. they generally speaking shouldn't match because you're trying to tailor it to these specifically. Yeah, it's always it's always going to be stronger if you can dial it in. You know, I think there's sometimes the temptation to be like, oh yeah, like like if you ask Bridger, Bridger is really bad about this this whole process and you can't basically can't trust anything he says. He's like, I'll like everything like that's not how that works. That's not it's not helpful. It's like it's super unhelpful. Um but generally being generally speaking like okay if you're going against u like nids right your odds against a vanguard list versus a subterranean assault versus a like you know um invasion fleet might be very very different right so being able to kind of parse it out a bit more is helpful like we just did a high level in this event we just did just the the basics for the armies and so it's again our like five members and then all of the uh factions just going straight down and we basically just did like a color system. It was like uh green, yellow, red basically. Yeah. Um but then when we went to do the actual pairings, uh we would have more in-depth discussions. Okay, look at this list. Okay, it's this version. This means this. But it gives it gives you or your captain, your team just a quick reference to be able to see. Um and if you want to take the time uh to to kind of parse it out more specifically, that will always be better. Yeah, of course. Uh it's like whenever I do stuff on my team, and I guess we didn't mention like the actual event we went to. Um, sure. So, the event that we went to, uh, was put on by Battleshot Gaming. Uh, a friend of ours, Chris. So, this is the Sonoma Teams tournament. So, it did happen in Sonoma, which is north of us. Um, like Yeah. And there were 12 teams, I want to say. Um, so a good amount of people. That's what 60 people that were there at this event. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was like not huge, not small. Yeah. Like it was a good amount. Um, I had a I was going somewhere with this. Yeah. Hopefully I lost it. I lost it immediately. Anyways, it was it was a great event. It was well run. Everything was on time. A lot of space. We're up in the veterans building, veteran center. Uh veterans hall. Yeah. Yeah. Uh so sweet. Yeah. Uh so matrices, that's the event. Uh let's talk about pairings. Yes. Let's talk about pairings. I did have a point to what I was going to say. I just don't know what it was. I'm sure we'll get back to it. Yep. Anyways, okay. So when I sat down to do these pairings, it was the night before. We had already gotten our our pairings. Y um which was nice. We actually got them like a day and a half before the actual round started, which was really, really nice. But I didn't sit down and do this until like 1:00 in the morning. So, just awake and in bed, and I was like, "Ah, I might as well do this before I get to stressing me out. Oh my gosh." So, I took the matrix that we did as kind of my guidelines. Now, it wasn't uh perfect, as we mentioned before, like the lists changed the way that we want to actually parent to these matchups, but I kind of got a really good sense for what everybody wanted to go into, right? It's like a big thing for pairings isn't just this army is going into this army. It's also how confident is that player going into this army? And based off that matrix, I could see, okay, this is kind of where everybody's head's at. Mhm. Uh, and so I had made two two plans for this list or for this pairings. One of which was if they defended with Thousand Sons first and one is they defended with Imperial Knights first because that changed basically everything. Y when we were looking at this matrix or when I was looking at this matrix the thousand sons were in army that we really didn't have an answer for nobody was super confident into the thousand sons. So knowing that I as the I'm trying to put myself in the shoes of my opponent. Yeah. Uh our matrixes matrices should be mirrors, right? So if our matrix has a green match up somewhere, their matrix should have red, right? And vice versa, right? If if everyone is if everyone's correct, then the decisions should be clear on both sides, right? If or if you're at least in the same mindset, then everything should be like, oh, we both are in agreement that this army should do well to this army, right? So, if it's a good matchup for us, then it should be a bad match up for them, right? And so, kind of operating from this this I mean, it's basically like game theory, right? Like, assuming your opponent makes the best move possible, what would they do, right? And so the way that I like to do this is I put myself in the other team and then I look at my matrix as a reference for what their matrix should look like and I try to make the best decision for their team and then operate off of that. So when I was pairing for their team, uh, Thousand Suns didn't have a bad matchup going into us to in our in our matrix, nobody was super confident in it, which means that they could save the Thousand Sons to play into whatever army and it would be fine. Uh there wasn't any other army in this detach or in this set of armies that wanted to be a defender except for potentially Imperial Knights because they have the field of pain. They just have a lot of stat check type stuff and we aren't super confident into them except for maybe like two yeah uh armies that we paired into. So what do you look for in a defender army? So the first thing I I look for is if there is an army that really only has one bad matchup. Um, if there's an army that has one bad matchup, I think they're a great defender because even if again, if everybody's on the same page, you and your opponent, the opposing team, they know that this army only has one bad matchup. U, so when you put it down, they're going to give you the bad matchup and then they're going to give you a different army. You just take the different army, unless that bad matchup is also a really bad matchup for the rest of the team, in which case you can get it out as soon as possible. Um, but again, if everybody's on the same page, they're going to give you the bad matchup, they're going to give you something else. You take the something else and it's totally fine. and that something else could also be a bad matchup for something else or for another army in your team. Um, so that's one of the ways you could look at it. Also, if your uh team has some like more inexperienced players uh that you know are going to have a hard time into a lot of these armies anyways, you can put them out there and just try to pull a bad match up away from the team. And that's also something you could look at doing if you have an army that doesn't have a good game anywhere. Like if I had brought Eldar for example, most of these team compositions I had no game in. So, like I would have been first defender every single time just to try to pluck something out of the field. Um, again, that's why I didn't bring Elar, but something like that, right? Where if you have an army that has no game, put them out. If you have an army that only has one bad matchup, put them out. Totally. Uh, and the armies that have no bad matchups or you think will have no bad matchups, you want to save because it doesn't matter what they play into, they can they can do well. They can perform. So, those types of armies, you definitely want to save till the very end. either the ones that get forced into a pairing or as the last attacker into something else because it also if you can get them a good match up obviously get them a good match up. If they can get like a 200 somewhere definitely do that. But um you're trying to set up armies for big wins is kind of the way that I look at it. Uh so in our particular team composition the biggest ones we want were Deathguard. Obviously we want to have big wins and we wanted Adrian's guardless to get good wins as well. That was something we discussed as a team. So mostly um me, Jesse who's playing Sisters and Jason who's playing Imperial Knights, we were kind of uh goalies, right? We're trying to make sure that our opponents can't score too much. Uh we don't necessarily need to win our games. That's not really the point of why we're there. We're trying to set up two wins and then basically tie everyone else so that way we're up enough on the differential so we can win the round. Yeah. Um so we're not trying to get five wins. That's never the goal of a team. Like you should try to win, but be realistic, you know, be realistic. And and something to note there when you look at those armies and that breakdown there is like particularly the sisters and the great knights they're going to be a more all around allarounder kind of forces that can kind of go into anything. They're more uh mission play things that can kind of score regardless of their opponent things like that. Whereas like the guard the death guard and sometimes the Imperial Knights it's more it's going to be kind of skew and smash through and it's obviously also affected by like player as well. Um, but that's kind of like the thing there, right? Like you guys will always have your tricks, you your moves, your involves, things like that. You have that flexibility. Um, whereas the other the other list maybe want to just kind of bully someone with a bit more skew there. Yeah, 100%. Uh, and so if we go back to the actual pairings process, so my initial thought of if they defend with Imperial Knights, I had a plan for Adrian regardless was going to be the defender first because regardless of whether or not they defend with Imperial Knights or Thousand Sons, we can only have one defender and we don't know who their defender is before we put ours out. So I had to make a plan around Adrian being the defender uh and then having one of the two of theirs as a defender. So the plan I made for the Thousand Sons, this one didn't actually end up happening because they did defend with Mr. Knights first. Um, I'm just going to pull it up because I have it on my phone. Um, so we figured the Thousand Sons were going to be Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, my initial plan, so if they defended with the Thousand Sons, Adrian was going to be our defender regardless. Imperial Knights and the Death Watch were what I was saying was going to be their attackers. And then we would pick the Death Watch. Our Yeah. So, their first defender would be Thousand Sons. Then, we put me and Jesse into the Thousand Sons for the exact same reason that Adrian just saying. We can just play the game. um we can keep it a very similar score like 10 10 nine 11 whatever right even if we lose it's not a huge loss exactly so that was the first plan for them our second defender I had as our death guard just because again it's one of those armies that we weren't really Wait uh you didn't say who our first defender was you you were always yeah you were always first defender yeah so we're putting me up as defender we assume that they would put uh this is if uh sorry you can put the Second pairing. Second pairing. Yep. You can put the Thousand Sons cuz they're the first defender on the other two. Okay. Uh so our attackers for the Thousand Sons was uh where Thousands me and Jesse. So Grey Knights and Sisters. Yeah. Yeah. This is what you had. This is not what ended up happening because they defended with Imperial Knights. But this was my initial plan. Yeah. Totally. Uh and then their attackers and to you I assumed they would put Imperial Knights in Death Watch, right? because they again they don't want to put the other armies there. Yeah. Uh we would have taken if that were to happen, we would have taken Death Watch just because we think it's a very good game for you. It's very hard for Death Watch to play into that many vehicles. It's a big spike. So we would basically we would say so the way it works is first we put we would you put your cards down and then you flip them over. So we put our our our guard down, flip it over. Uh cool. And they would have put this card down, flip it over. Okay, we see these now. Now we take two. They put two cards forward face down. We put two cards forward face down. Flip them in at the same time and we get the pick. So I would pick this. Send the knights back. Um and again here we're looking to spike, right? Can my list take on knights? Maybe. We saw the stream last week. Maybe not. Uh so we're saying let's go for the big big points here. Push that differential. And then over here what were we thinking? Uh they would have taken great knights here. I have less units than sisters which means I have less assets. It's easier for them to play the game around the granites than it is sisters. obviously have the upper and stuff, but their profile is actually really good into Grey Knights. So, they would have taken Grey Knights here just to try to again limit the amount of impact that your game has on this game. Sure. Uh and then following that, our second defender would have been Deathguard. Mhm. And their second defender would have been Imperial Knights, right? Uh defender. Yeah. And then for us, they probably would have given their Grey Knights and their Chaos Knights. I guess they probably they have to give Knights Chaos Knights as the last two armies. Yep. Uh, and then we would have given obviously our last two armies. Um, oh, they're going to fight each other. Yeah, I think it's a win-win. And then these would go here. Yep. Exactly. Uh, and then for us, we would pick Grey Knights because there's just nothing that Grey Knights can realistically do into uh into Death Guard. And then for them, I assume that they would have picked uh sisters just to try to avoid the mirror match um on Imperial Knights. Not that it's a bad matchup per se, but it's a very swingy and can be a very volatile matchup. Yes. Um, someone was asking earlier about is there a reason to do mirrors and not mirrors. Uh, definitely. Or reason to do mirrors. You know, Monare one had mentioned. Yeah. If you I think Imperial Knights are a good example. If you are someone running like the trope post and you have anti-tank, then it could be good going into Imperial Knights. Um, yeah, sometimes it just can be very swingy, right? There are some armies that when you match them against each other, you can kind of expect it to be a tie. When when there's things like Imperial Knights, big big swingy dice, it could spike really hard. And you don't generally want to make your plan based off of swinging hard. Yeah. But again, knights are really strong. If you were worried about if you didn't feel like anyone else had a chance against them, then you might also want to just force it and say, you know what, we're going to just kind of play for the tie there. Get them out of the way. A couple cases where you might want to go play for the mirror then. Yeah, playing for a mirror to force a tie is sometimes just what you have to do. Um especially if the mirror is like death guard or Imperial Knights where they're just hard matchups for a lot of people to to handle. Exactly. Um the bottom there we go. Uh so yeah. So that was my prediction if they had done Thousand Sons as their first offender. Now as it stands they didn't do that which I think was probably a big mistake. Um I think or sorry if they did yeah if they did Thousand first offender I think what they did was the mistake because it gave us way better matchups. So if we look at what we have here, we have garden death watch, which is good for us. We have grey knights into thousand suns, which is not good for us. Death Guard into Grey Knights, good for us. Sisters and April Knights, probably not great for us. Um, and then Chaos Knights and Imperial Knights, I think we advantaged there, but again, it's a very swingy can be a very volatile game. So it was kind of like we weren't super sure, super confident into that one. Yep. Um, now if we go back into what actually happened, uh, we again still defended with Adrian because we had to. Yeah. Uh, and then they actually gave us Thousand Suns and Chaos Knights as defenders into Adrian. Yeah. And then their first defender, they had Imperial Knights, which is again what I had assumed would be one of their defenders, potential defenders, right? Uh, and then into them we put Death Guard and Pomeo. Uh, we put Death Guard and we put uh, Sisters, right? And then they chose uh what did they choose? They chose Death Guard into Imperial Knights, which is surprising, which is very surprising. Like this was again a very anti- tank list. Um Shane had to Shane couldn't make it day one because of House House stuff. Everything's fine, but he was dealing with um contractors and stuff like that. So we had Bridger. Yep. Shockingly, first 40k event in years, maybe. I don't know. So that was cool. So we had Bridger going to the Knights, which is a match up we wanted. Yep. Which is a great match up for us. uh you chose Thousand Sons and the reason I had Adrian pick Thousand Sons. Chaos Knights would have been fine. I think he could have got a great win in Chaos Knights, but also again for the same exact reason that we've been saying this whole time. Uh it's just a very swingy matchup and it could go either way. And Thousand Suns was an army that not everybody was comfortable with. So getting it out as the first pick meant that the rest of our pairings should have gone much much easier because we don't have to worry about them anymore. Exactly. I wasn't like, "Oh, this is like the perfect matchup," but like I felt more comfortable than others. And I was like, it was like, "Okay, would someone else be less happy with getting the Thousand Suns?" The answer is yes. So, let me just let me just take this and let's see what we can do. Um, you know, and it's also important to know like if you are the defender, if you're playing an army that generally speaking is the defender. Like often times custodians are defenders just because I think it's just like the archetype of the army and also like the players on the anvil the ways will crash and it's going to all break the you know like they'll stop the the the flow of water or whatever. Um, so if you are generally speaking the defender on your team most of the time and you're losing a lot of your games, that's fine. Defender is not supposed to win their games. Like the first defender most of the time shouldn't win their games just because again if everybody's on the same page you're going to get an un ideal match up. So like it's okay to lose your games a lot as the first defender. Like don't feel bad about that in any way. The whole point of the first defender is to try to limit the amount that your opponent can score, not necessarily get 200's or win big or whatever. If you are first defender and you get a 200, you guys did pairings phenomenally and your opponents probably less. So, before we continue, I do want to give a thank you to uh WM11 for becoming captain. Welcome, welcome. And then I want to thank T for the super super chat. Uh Adrian, is it true that if you're Lil Bee's captain and Bridger is the opposing team, you'll always match them just to make Brian's life miserable. Oh yeah, for sure. 100%. Well, like like Brian said, like the confidence of the players matters a lot, you know? So, if you can shake that confidence, that's great. Yeah. On the psychological warfare, you know, I'm devastated immediately. It's so true. I just can't listen to what Bridger says. Yeah. Like a 200 no matter what. Like no matter what. Cool. Cool. Uh but thank you folks. We we appreciate it. Um cool. What's up Empanador? Imperial. Here in Spain, team tournaments are more relevant than singles. There's definitely a growing culture of uh teams events and as mentioned it kind of started overseas in in in Europe in particular and very popular there. We really like it. I think it's probably my favorite way to play Warhammer to be honest. Yeah. Oh, for sure. Hands down my favorite way to play Warhammer. It's just it feels so much better being on a team and being able to contribute even when you lose. Um like that's not the only reason I like it. Obviously, you get to hang out with your friends all weekend and you actually get to talk about games and do the whole strategy stuff and like the actual just talking through of the the pairings in general. So, I genuinely love it. Exactly. Excuse me. Cool. Uh and so the next up would be our second defender. So, these are the matchups for the first two rounds. Uh we had our sisters, so Grana or sorry, Jesse as a defender. Uh, and then for their defender, they had grey knights, which again, I think was a mistake on their end, but interesting. Uh, we'll get there in a second. So, for us, they gave us obviously the last two arms, so Chaos Knights and Death Watch, and then obviously Grey Knights and Imperial Knights. Uh, now the reason I say that I think Gran Knights was a mistake is because either they're forced into a mirror match, which again for Knights is not the end of the world. Like a mirror of Grey Knights is supposed to be like a 1010. It should be like a 1010. Um but Imperial Knights obviously they they'll just never take it. They will never take Imperial Knights as the G Knights player. So they're forced into the mirror match no matter what happens. Um which again is a problem. So I think potentially they thought that we would put Grey Knights as a defender which for the same reason we would never do because either I'm I'm forced into the mirror match which we don't want. Um so again I think they probably should have defended with either Death Watch or Cha Knights. That way they could have probably chaos knights honestly. So it's so interesting because the Grey Knights I feel like at this point didn't really have a great matchup. They didn't they did not have a great match up but theoretically they can play into sisters. So if we can get him into sisters like I would have been happy to play into sisters as a great night's player. Um and so again if we're on the same page the should also have been happy to play into sisters. Now that said I haven't played into the sisters with granites with all the new points adjustments and the new um pace from the balance state. So maybe I'm wrong here. Uh but either way, uh they took Grey Knights as the mirror match cuz again they would never take Imperial Knights. Um so we mirrored Grey Knights. Did they? Yeah. No. Yeah, I played great. Are you sure? Yeah. What the heck? Yeah. No, I they play they picked Grey Knights. Oh, I did play next to you. Yeah. That's crazy. Uh and then for us, we picked um Chaos Knights. Chaos Knights. So the final matchup was Death Watch and Imperial Knights. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry. And so this was the the overall this is how the pairings ended. Um and if uh when I did this and because again like this was before we got to the table. This is how it all played out in my head. Um except for the gren. The defending with the grenades was a little strange to me. Um but everything else lined up exactly kind of how I imagined it. And comparing that to the pairings matrix that we had. We had good matchups everywhere except for the thousand suns and guard. Like everything else was fine. like Imperial Knights into Death Watch is what we wanted. Sisters and Chaos Knights was something that we had planned for. Death Garden, Imperial Knights was great for us. Grey Knights into Grey Knights is a wash. And then your game was the only kind of unknown, but this was also an intentional move on your part because you said, "Well, I I actually, this is probably not a good thing, but I actually didn't have any reds in my my my matrix." You said, "Well, if there's no reds, then you should go first and be flexible depending on we can see what their strategy is." Right. Right. Exactly. Um, so this is how it ended up. And overall, we had a clean sweep here. Um, so we ended up winning this round 29. So they got 29 points, we got 71 points um, in the overall round. So we didn't lose a single game in this matchup. Um, we did have two ties. So I tied the Grey Knights, of course, and then we had a tie with the Imperial Knights and Death Watch, but we won everywhere else. So absolutely killed it. We we crushed this round. And I was super happy with the pairings process. And this instilled a lot of confidence in me knowing that like, okay, cuz again, I've only ever been attached to the captain doing the pairings. So I was like, "Okay, I can actually do this now. I feel much more confident in going into these further rounds." That's where I was sold. I was like like Brian just nailed it. He he he knew what he was doing. He had a plan. He knew where to like adjust it uh based off what they did. I was like, "All right, I'm sold." Like Brian, you got this. Um and it was it was it was it was a very cool moment to be like really have confidence in our team and everyone's ability to like estimate what they wanted to do. So that was great. Yeah, it was super sick. So this was this was a great one. We like we were super happy. I was super happy with this and everybody felt like we had good match ups going into it. Again, uh Thousand Sons and guard match up ended up being really great for you actually. You had an 182 191 uh 191 191 was really great. Um he was he was newer to the army I think. But um I was able to sort of like I I I won't go too much of the list cuz it's not a singles uh uh video, but like I really like the list and I was able to kind of like pressure pressure him, force him to use his assets and then like take mom with the tanks late game. Um I was worried about the the output, but it was actually totally fine. Totally reasonable and just kind of tempoed it appropriately. Um and I could definitely kill the stuff that I knew had no problem. So yeah, it worked out great. Yeah, it was sick. So that was round one. Let's take a look at round two. Oh, we should also mention there's only four rounds to this event. It was two day or two games on Saturday, two games on uh Sunday. So, it was we love fantastic. Actually, let me just make copy of this. Yeah, we are a big fan of that. It's just much more comfortable for everyone involved, you know. Yeah, we went and had dinner afterwards on Saturday. Yeah. And still got home at a reasonable time. Oh, it was fantastic. Which never happens when you play Warhammer. So true. Uh so let's take a look at round two. Round two. We do. Also, I want to shout out all our pants were fantastic. Really nice, nice folks. Um, we just had a great time. All right, so this see what y'all see. Can you see what I think is? So, this was our round two pairing. Now, um, this one was a little bit messier for me as the captain trying to do the pairings because we gotten paired into a team, uh, during lunch and so I was starting to do the whole process during lunch and then we got back from lunch, found out that everything was repaired and the round was starting in like 5 minutes. Sucked. Um, so it really sucked because I had a plan for another team and then this kind of was just thrown at us and was like, "All right, now you got to figure this out." So I was kind of flustered, I would say. Um, yeah, overall I think it still went very well for us, but um, well, let's just get into this. So, um the the plan here again was to have Jesse start as the I shouldn't say again. So, Jesse was going to be the defender here. And the reason being is he was confident into most of the things. Again, there was really only one thing he wasn't super happy with, which was going to be the death card. But again, that was kind of the same story for the rest of us. Nobody wanted the death card. No. Um and then uh their first defender actually ended up being the Chaos Marines, which again I'm not a super big fan of as their first defender. Second pair. Oh, yeah. Um, and the reason I'm not a huge fan of it as the second offender is because marines are pretty easy to kill. Now, this list in particular was definitely toolled to kill knights because it was like triple vindicator and forge fiends and guns out the wazu. Uh, but yeah, I I think I would have much preferred to have seen even just death card be defender just for the same reason. Like there's not a bad match up for him in there's a lot of awkward matchups for this particular list or even the tyrannis. Actually, the the list I had was an invasion fleet with a bunch of big bugs. Um, so I think that could have also been a good defender for them. And I think that was actually what I talked about in my initial plan was either CSM or a Tyrion. And the only reason I thought CSM is because I talked to the previous opponents that they had and they said they defended was CSM first. And that was not even on my radar as something that they would put as the first defender until I was told that that's what they did. Um, but anyways, so for uh our two attackers that they gave us, they gave us demons and tyrannids into sisters and then Thanks. Got you. Uh, and then, um, we gave them Imperial Knights and Death Guard into castmarines. Uh, now again, this is kind of the thing that I've talked about before where you can force matchups. Yeah. No one he would never take death card in this instance. Correct. So, we are forcing him into Imperial Knights, which is our Imperial Knights player wanted this matchup. He said he was happy to play as Chaos Marines. So, by putting Deathguard into Chaos Space Marines with Imperial Knights, we guarantee a good match up for us. So either he takes Deathguard and we're happy. He'll never take Deathguard. So we guarantee he takes Imperial Knights. Either way, we're happy. So it forces him into a bad scenario in which case, again, like I mentioned earlier, if you are the first defender, it's okay to lose your games. Uh because again, if the matrix is the same on both of our ends, this is a bad matchup no matter which one he picks, right? Uh so for us, we ended up taking Chaos Demons into Sisters. Um, and the reason we took chaos demons into sisters is because we could play into tyrannids and it would have been fine. Um, we had other tools to deal with tyrannids and there was kind of awkward match ups for the demons. So Jesse was like, "All right, we'll do this." Uh, and for there was a little confusion. There was a little confusion. I don't know how he got confused. Everybody's on the same page except for Jesse, but it's we'll we'll get to that in a second. Uh, the Chaos Marines end up taking Lights. Of course, they were never going to take Death Guard. And so those were our two matchups. Um, one good for us, one kind of awkward, but still should be fine. Yeah, it could go it could go either way. But like our our again, this is basically gleaning on the player. Player was confident. We knew that the CSM could take down the Imperial Knight. It's one of the reason they could do it, but they're pretty squishy. So, you know, overall slightly net positive. Yeah. Um, and then for our second defender, we actually ended up putting Adrian down. Um, the reason we didn't put me, I still have I can't play into Death Guard and I can't play into Black Templars. So, I have two red matchups. I that just cannot happen. um death guard again because there's no bad matchups. We can put the death guard into wherever. So the the next logical step for us is to put guard into our defenders position and then their defender was actually uh turnins. So of course the last two armies being black templars deathg guard which is what Adrian chose from and then they chose between cran Ice and deathg guard. Uh and this is kind of another situation of they are forcing the pairing. Um knowing that black templars could get sent back. Mhm. I had Adrian take Black Templars because if Black Templars get sent back or sorry, let me let me back up. Yeah. Putting myself in my opponent's shoes, right? As their captain, Grey Knights and Black Templars is like an auto loss for Grey Knights as like a 200, which means because these two armies could potentially get paired as like the leftovers. Yeah, I needed Adrian to take Black Templars. That way, if they tried to send me back as the fifth and final pairing, I didn't get forced into Black Templars because that's a guarantee guaranteed loss. There's nothing I can do in that matchup. um which I've played it many times so I know it's there's nothing you can do in that matchup. Exactly. So Death Guard goes back as the fifth pairing and then um funny enough they actually chose the Grey Knights with the Tyrannids. So Death Guard versus Death Guard was the mirror again trying to probably limit uh the amount of damage that that match up could happen. That's exactly what that was. Right. And that and that's going to happen and that's that's like a move to make. Like it's you're not always going to get your ideal matchups. You're trying to either protect someone else or reduce the differential. And that's yeah, I totally understand why they made that move at that point. Yeah. So, uh yeah, so this is how we ended up with our pairings. Um overall, the round ended up much closer than the last one. Um probably a little bit too close for comfort, but we did end up winning 55 to 45. Uh we took a loss in the Imperial Knights. Um it was an 812 and then I lost the Tyrannis game. Uh 155 I believe. The turn I stepped out to do my damage. I did no damage. Um so we lost those games. Deathguard ended up winning. you ended up winning pretty big into the guard and then sisters actually lost. Did he lose this game against the Chaos Demons? He tied this game. He tied. Oh, he tied. I think he tied this game. Um but either way, so off of the two big wins and then small losses, um we were able to win around 55 to 45. So again, 20 at the end of day one. Feeling good. Feeling great. We're in a great spot at this point. Um looks great. Uh let me get round three. Yeah, give me get all sorted out there. Get rid of these old teams. We don't need these teams. Time to fight. You can check in on chat one. Yeah. Doing the dishes. Uh, we're talking about metalist here. Oh, talking about death card. Metalist. Metalist. Oh, metalist. Metalist. Yeah, for the death card. Oh, death card. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, deathg guard was a huge problem in this event. Like actually, funny enough, Imperial knights were a bigger problem at this event than Deathguard was cuz everybody probably had Death Guard except for one team that we played, but everybody had knights. That's true. Everybody had knights. Everyone had knights. Yeah. Although Yeah. I feel like there's more batchups into Death Guard than knights. I could be wrong. Yeah. Maybe it's cuz they're slightly untested. Yeah. And they're just pretty new. I feel like I would rather fight knights than Death Guard. Yeah. So, here we are. Round three. We're in the two 20 two bracket. Um that's what we got. Yeah. So this one um again we had one matchup that we were kind of unsure of which was the Nekrons. It was a Star Shatter list that had a bunch of heavy destroyers. And while normally Imperial Knights could play into to Nekrons and be fine, um Adrian normally could play into Death Guard and be fine or Nekrons and be fine. Yeah. It was just really weird because of the heavy destroyers that are just flat six damage. They're like AP4 or AP3 or something like the damage is there and could spike in a turn in which case you could just flip the game on a dime. And they had a lot of trash that could also screen. Um keep in mind we're also looking at boards and deployments. We know this was Crucible. Um we knew that there was also purge the foe which means you have to kill and kill more hold more which again in an AR in a in a meta designed around killing at the moment. Yeah. It's a very scary place to be when you're going into a list that is designed to kill big things and you have a lot of big things. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And they can just then they can outrange uh frankly both the guard and the imperial knights here. So that was a concern going into this. Yeah. So we needed to protect Adrian and we needed to protect uh Imperial Knight or Jason or Imperial Knight. So those two we definitely needed to pair for this round. Um so whenever I was doing the pairings I had a conversation with Jesse and me and him were okay getting into the Nekron's pairings. Not, it wasn't ideal. I have dread knights, of course, but the damage profile on the heavy destroyers are flat six. I have 13 wounds on my dread knights. So, it takes an entire squad of heavy destroyers to drop a dread knight if they want to do that, which you know, it wounding and I have a fourth from one save. It's probably not going to happen that way. Um, so it takes at least two squads of the heavy destroyers to shoot into a dread knight to kill it. So, like I was okay with that kind of trade up if you if you will. Jesse same way. He's got a lot of units. They're only three shots on those things. Like he was happy to take that match up. But what did we do here? Um, knowing that we need to protect Adrian from the Nekrons. That was really his only like uncertainty. Uh, we put him as the first defender. Um, and because we put him as the first defender, of course, they were going to force the Nekron or try to force the Nekron pairing. So, they gave him Nekrons and they gave him custodians. Yes. And again, this is another case of there's no world in which we take Nekrons and they know that. So they're forcing us into custodes, which again kind of an awkward match up, but not necessarily the worst thing, right? Yeah. I would learn I would come to learn that they were playing a points scoring and points denial game with the custodians. Um where they this was their tarpit list. This was their list that would score regardless of their opponent. They would take fixed objectives. Oh, interesting. And uh yeah, so it was very interesting. So this at first I was like, what? What? And while it wasn't the best matchup, it made more not more sense after I had actually played the game. Um but anyways, yep. So yeah, they obviously kicked this back. Yeah, we kicked that back and we took the custoding. Uh but for their first defender, they put down Imperial Knights, which I kind of figured they would do. Um cuz if they didn't defend with Nekrons, which I don't know why they would, it would have had to have been Imperial Knights. Um and we gave them Imperial Knights and Sisters as our two attackers. Uh and they forced actually the Imperial Knights Mir. Yeah, that's interesting. Um, yeah, I I didn't think that they would do this just because again, they have like a higher potential with the sisters and this is kind of like an awkward match up, but they took the the mirror match, which is fine. And then our second defender, again, Jesse was still kind of in the boat of if they give me Nekrons, I'll take Nekrons. Um, if they don't give me Nekrons, I won't take Nekron. So, he had the sisters as defender. And then for them, they actually put Nekrons as the defender. Nekrons. So, again, I didn't super expect this one to happen. Mhm. But like we kind of planned for it anyways because I was still in the pool to take on Nekrons. So uh me and Deathguard going into Nekrons, they will never take Deathguard. So it forced them into me. And then obviously Dark Angels into Chaos Knights. We chose um Chaos Knights for Jesse. Yep. Again trying to mitigate. Uh they also had a Was this the tyrant list or was that the round before? Uh this was three. This was Teddy. This was Teddy. I don't remember what Teddy's had. Never mind. Yeah. Anyways, uh yeah, so that's that. Yeah. So, we pushed Dark Angels back knowing that they would take me over Death Guard, meaning we paired Deathguard into Dark Angels kind of which is good. That's what we liked, which is what we wanted, right? It's like um these matchups, again, we talked about all these match ups beforehand. Like, if we can get Knights Mirror, then it's fine. We're not super happy with it, but like it's fine. Um, sisters into Chaos Knights. We were good with me into Nekrons is something we had talked about just kind of like blunting the the blade there. Dark angels into Death Guard. Super happy with that matchup. And then of course you with the Cassot again kind of like an awkward one, but we were pretty confident that you'd be able to do to do well here. Yeah. Now, this matchup ended or this round ended very as close as it could possibly be without being a tie. So, we scored 53 points here, which is the minimum you need in a round to win. Uh, and so they scored 47 points. This was by the skin of our teeth. We were able to call this one out. Uh, now I will say it took us a very long time to set up all these tables. So, we actually didn't start this round until probably like an hour into it. Um, after we set up the tables and after we did all of the like the pairings and everything um, and went over list and deployed and everything. So, we got called dice down while most of us were still playing our games. Um, I was actually in turn four when they called dice down. So, we didn't actually get to play turn five and I went second and I had four dread knights on the table. Um, so like again, would have would have, could have, should have, right? Yeah. Should have just played faster, but you know, at the end of the day, that's what it is. So, we ended up winning by the the skin of our teeth here. So, 53 to 47, which was making us the only undefeated team at the end of this round going into round four. That means we win, right? Oh, yeah. Definitely means we win. Uh, so going into round four. Yeah. This is the last uh pairings that we had done. And now this team was probably This one had a lot of of tough match ups for us, I would say. Yeah, I think this was the hardest one to pair. Yeah, we had a tough time. Um and this was less so just about me doing all the pairings. We had a lot like the whole team had a lot of conversation about how we were going to approach this one because we didn't really have good answers for a lot of this stuff. Exactly. Before we dive on into it, I do want to take the super chat from digital designer. Thank. Thank you. Seems like you both had a great time playing teams. Guess that means y'all will have to get a Nova. Get to Nova a bit early so you can compete in teams there. Winky face. I would love to, but then I wouldn't play singles. And their teams event is like one day, I think. Yeah. It's not just like why why I would rather play teams, but I'd also would like to play two days of Warhammer. I'm going to go all the way up for that, you know. Yeah. So, but I'm also playing World of Rings in Nova, so yeah. Can't do both. I'm not bringing out two armies. Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, it goes. Uh, thanks Digital. Appreciate it. We'll see you there regardless. Um, cool. Cool. Uh, so I think we start talking about this match up with our problem childs. Um, so the the players on this team are phenomenal players. Every single one of them. Um, the pilot of the Space Wolves and he was actually running a Space Wolves detachment, I believe, if I'm not mistaken. No, Storm. Was it Stormance? Okay. Well, I guess I was mistaken. Um, she's playing Stormlands with Space Wolves, but it was basic, it was wolf jail, but like an updated version of Wolf Jail and Forest, the pilot of the Space Wolves, great player, and he takes every GT that he goes to basically as a win or second place. Um, he's fantastic. Uh, the Nekron's player, probably one of the better Nekrons players in the area. Ulis, incredible player. So those two and everybody on this team like Billy on the the death card or sorry not Billy, Jimmy on the Death Guard. Very Jimmy Space. Jimmy Space. Wow. Jimmy Space and actually Alex. Holly. Yeah, our buddy Alex ended up on the other team. Really funny. And then I forget the name of the player, but I apologize. But again, he's around a lot of I've seen him, but I've never like Yeah, I've never actually played against him, but he's a great player also. Um, so all these these matchups were very hard for me to wrap my brain around as to the best way to approach it. We knew Space Wolves because one, it's a really hard match up for a lot of us, but also because it's Forest, we didn't know how to to stop him. So no matter what happened in my head, this is and I I mentioned this when we were to the teams, like we take the loss no matter what. I think no matter what happens, whoever goes into this army, we take the loss. It's just how we limit the amount of points that Forest scoring process was designed around making sure that Forest does not get into Adrian and does not get into Jason or Imperial Knights player. Mhm. Uh after the round I talked to Forest. He's like, "Yeah, there's nothing on your team that I was like not going to win into." And we were like, "No, we we are fully aware of that, you know." But again, it goes back to like the confidence of the player, right? Where he after the fact, he's like, "Yeah, I could have played into anything and still done just as well." It's true. I was like, you are just a savant. I don't know. But it's also like, you know, he took took took took the list that he did to to go. I'm sure there were some matches that were tougher. I don't know. He actually lost round one, so whatever that was, right? Um there's this whole gamut of things that you have to be prepared for. So, it was nice for them to go into this match up being like, "Cool, that's like a non-factor, right?" And meanwhile, we were like, "Do we even have a chance with anything?" And we're like, "Don't don't feel confident." So, again, not betting on things that aren't sure, right? 100%. Um Yeah. So, because we knew that we needed to keep Adrian safe from Space Wolves, but he also didn't want to go into uh there was another one you didn't want to play into. Um, if I'm not mistaken, I was I think it was the custod. I was Yeah, the custodians was a more aggressive custodian's list and I was it was with more wardens. I was worried about just getting bogged down, especially with lions. They can get Oh, yeah. And you had you had less units, more bricks, so plus one to wound against like all my vehicles. It was the kind of list that could just like tag me up basically. So, because Adrian had two really bad match ups that he didn't really want to go into, there's no way that I could ever justify starting as defender because again, if everybody's on the same page, they give him both of his bad matchups and he's screwed no matter what. If there's one bad matchup, it's fine. If there's two bad matchups, no, you got to we got to try to get them out of there. Yeah, 100%. Um, and then so we started with Jesse, and again, this is because we talked about either me or Jesse kind of face tanking the space wolves. Yep. Um, and then for their first defender, they put down Nekrons. Nekrons. Ulis. This was a cool star doomsday art kind of list. Yeah. A couple wraith bricks. Two brick. Yeah. Two wraith bricks. It was insane. Um, so once we obviously saw the defenders, we knew that attacking they we actually attacked with me and uh, Death Guard. So me and Shane were attackers into the Nekrons. And then for Jesse, they gave him space wolves and they gave him t-sons. And this actually kind of fit really well with what we wanted to do. Yeah. Uh because again, we wanted to pull the space wolves out as soon as possible. So that way Adrian didn't have to play into them. So we took the space wolves matchup for sisters and then thousand sons went back to the pool for them. We forced great knights. So they chose grey knights over death guard which was fine. Um again we had talked about this previous or beforehand so that way we could try to like get better matchups for the other three armies that are remaining. The second offender we put down Adrian now because custod is the only one floating around so he can play into whatever else and feel somewhat confident into. Exactly. Because again he just would not take the custodies if they gave him to him. For their second defender they put down death card which means the two armies go to the other. Uh then for Adrian, we had him take the thousand sons just because he had success with it uh in the first round. Yep. So we like okay we can do it again. You don't obviously you're not going to take custodies, so that goes away. Yeah, at that point I felt like I knew the match up a lot better. I was more confident. Uh and then for the Death Guard, they chose um Imperial Knights, which again, they wanted to avoid the mirror. They wanted to try to score a bigger win, so obviously they're not going to take the mirror match. Uh and then death card custodes ended up being the final pairing for us. Um, now overall I would say we were I wasn't unhappy with these pairings because this is kind of exactly what we talked about going into round four. Like this is what it needs to look like if we have a chance to win this game or to win the round. But we did have two bad matchups. So we had the sister space wolves of course is going to be bad. This particular flavor of Nekrons into my grey knights um was not a good pairing or matchup I would say just because he had the wraith bricks that grey knights literally cannot kill. Um, so I knew that I needed to limit the score as much as possible. Jesse needed to limit the score as much as possible and we needed to push on the other three tables to get wins obviously. Um, so this ended very again very very very close and at this point we're the only undefeated team going into round truly only truly undefeated team. We're 3 0. There were two wins and a draw. So there were people that had no losses but we were the only truly undefeated team going into this round. Um, now should we just talk about the scores? Let's do the scores, okay? Because we'll just build some drama. Let's let me open this up really quick. All right. So, it was down to the wire. Let's start with It's right here. So, let's start with Adrian. Okay. Adrian, you scored 19 points in this game. 19-1. You absolutely crushed this matchup. Thank you. Uh, the Death Guard and Imperial Knights matchup. We ended up tying. So, that was a 10 10. Um, we'll go into the deathgar custodes. Now, this one, Shane ended up actually losing eight to 12, which is unfortunate. We obviously wanted to win here, but like you know what happens. Um, we're still playing a dice game at the end of the game or at the end of the day, so that's totally fine. I ended up losing 13 to seven to Ulus. Uh, yeah, not the best showing. I would say I was hoping for like a nine or a 10, but again, such is life. And then, uh, last, but certainly not least, this is what sent it over the edge. So Forest into Jesse. Forest got a 200 into Jesse. So Jesse scored no points unfortunately for the team. Um and because if you add all those points together, it was 44 for us, 56 for Forest team. Um which meant we lost the round by four points. Four points. Four points. Four points. If we had gotten those four points, we would have tied with their team and we would have won the event because we would have been truly undefeated. Three wins and a tie. But as it stands, we were three wins, one loss at the end of the tournament. No, so close. It was so four points. Four points. So look, um yeah, it goes back to what we were saying at the beginning with the pairings though. We got the stuff that we talked about that we wanted. We just needed to play the game collectively as a team better. Um yeah, like there was things I could have done better. There were things that Shane could have done better. Obviously, Jason, Jesse, Adrian, too. Even though he got the 191, there was still that one point, right? So, there's always something you could have done. There's always like something to to work on. But, I mean, honestly though, at the end of the day, that's a great show. It was a great show. For us never have plank on a scene together. Yeah. Me doing pairing solo for the first time. Yeah. Uh, not doing an actual Matrix that we probably should have done like Yeah. We also kind of mostly play No, I think we basically played the armies just that we wanted to play like we didn't really take Yeah, if we changed the composition, right? I don't take great knights. I probably play like Space Marines or something or even uh Chaos Knights or something. Yeah, I think we would have been nice if we had a Chaos Knights, honestly. Yeah. Uh obviously we had no Thousand Suns. So, but we we played, you know, what we wanted to play and we obviously adjusted list accordingly and stuff like that. But, uh I I we were super happy with it. We had a great time. Thank you V for the gifted tabletops membership. Thank you. And welcome PFR Jolly to uh Titan Hood. Um so it was a great time. It was a great time. So we ended up taking third in the event. We each got a set of terrain which was awesome. Yep. Um and it was just a blast honestly. It really really was a ton of fun. Wild time. It was a wild time. And honest I'm like super excited. This kind of got me like reinvigorated to do more team tournaments. Yes. Just cuz I haven't actually been to one in a little bit. Um, and again, most of the time when I do it, I'm just kind of assisting with the pairings or like it's me and Jake who's my captain. We just kind of like talk through pairings with one another. Like I'll be the opposing team, he is our team, and we do pairings against each other. Yeah. Uh, and that is honestly a really big help as well. So, if you have somebody, if you are the captain and you have somebody that's willing to do pairings with you, just have them be the opposing team and then pair as if you were going to play into each other and then you guys can get an idea of like, oh, this is actually what we should do if they do this thing, if they do this thing or whatever. when you can kind of get a good sense of what uh needs to happen. Mhm. Mhm. But yeah, like I I'm really happy with this result. Three in one. That was great. Great. Oh, so fun. I didn't even mention I guess I can mention it now seeing as we just finished. Um the reason pairings are so freaking important in teams. We had 20 games that we played collectively over the course of the weekend. We won one less than half of our games and we still almost won the event. Uh, so we won eight out of our 20 games. Y and we were in third place potentially. We were four points away from winning the the event. Yeah. With only eight wins under our belt. Exactly. Pairings are mega mega mega important and they are more important than I I can't even like until you It's everything. Yeah, it's everything, right? It really really is, you know, and then you can go in, you can play your game of Warhammer, it's going to generally fall within those bounds. It's getting those matchups and making sure that you play the rest of the game. You know, that that's part of teams is there's this extra layer on top where you get to talk with your friends and figure out what to do and it's super important. So, highly recommend, you know, take that time, learn that process. The best way to learn it, obviously, is just by actually doing it, you know. Um, we've done a fair few of these by this point, so we're more comfortable with it. Um, but just go out there, just do it, you know, give it give it a try. Yeah. Yeah. I definitely a shout out to Brian cuz the pairings were amazing. This last round had I was I was like what do I do here? It was really rough cuz I didn't want like obviously as the captain it's there's a lot of stress to try to give everybody the match up that they want, right? But as uh just a member of the team just understand it's not possible like it's not going to happen every time. Like if you are um like a list that's there to stunt somebody's score. Yeah. You have to just kind of accept that that's what's going to happen. you're going to play into the bad matchups a lot of the time to try to stop them from scoring. Like you have to just be okay with taking a bad match up every now and again. And as the captain, be okay with giving a bad match up every now and again. Like you should have the conversation with your team. Yeah. And set the expectation before the event of like, hey, are we actually trying to win? Are we just trying to have a good time? Like what are we doing here? And then with that information, kind of make your game plan based off that. If you're trying to win, you you can't worry about hurting people's feelings. You just have to do what's best for the team. Um and don't feel guilty for doing that, for sure. Yeah, I I 100% agree. As always, set those expectations. You can have a great time. Um, regardless, just as long as you're all in agreement, and it's kind of fun. It's kind of heroic. You know, you be like, "All right, this person's going to jump on the grenade and like they might surprise you and get more points than you think." And it's it's kind of turns what might just be a miserable kind of matchup into something kind of fun and heroic. Yeah. I mean, Jesse jumped on this grenade for us, and we still almost won the round, you know, like that was super super important because it gave us better matchups other in other places. Like if I took the Space Wolves uh instead, I still I lose just as bad. I don't think it's a much better game. Um but you know, maybe it throws off the rest of the parents and now we don't actually get what we thought we were going to get and it maybe we lose by much more, you know, so it does matter a lot. Exactly. So that's teams. That's teams. If you have any questions, final questions, let us know now because we're going to be signing off in just a minute. Uh but yeah, just wanted to kind of give you a sense for, you know, what we know, what we've learned from it. I learned a lot. Um, this is my first team with Brian actually. So, definitely cool to see, you know, how he approaches uh the teams process and everything. Uh, we're definitely be looking to play more teams events, things like that. Um, uh, I think there's there's like one more during the summer and then there's obviously SoCal open in in the fall, which is a great time. We'd love to see you all there. And, um, I don't know. It's just it's just a good time. Yeah. So, let us know, of course, if you enjoyed this episode, if you thought it was helpful. And don't forget, we do this every Thursday for the members. So, consider becoming one so you can check it out. We also have a lot of other content. We have the Tuesday 40k games that we have y'all vote on, decide what you want to play on. We now have the post show for uh Trench Crusade where we do all the campaign progression and wacky mini gamess that we have planned. We have our behind the scenes episodes. Um I'm forgetting another one. There's another thing we do. Um anyway, there's another one I'm totally blanking on, but we do a bunch of content for members and all that stuff. I also want to conclude this vote which I started much earlier. Have you played teams before? 67% so twothirds of the people watching haven't played teams before. Wow. Get out there. Give it a go. Play teams. Yeah. Honestly, it's the most fun you'll have playing Warhammer for all the reasons that we've already said, so I won't keep reiterating it, but you just got to do it. It's a ton of fun. And don't be intimidated by it either because like most of the people most of the teams that are there are just there to have a good time. You know, there's a couple that are trying to win, but most everybody just wants to hang out with their friends and just Yeah. It's so much more chill. It's so fun. Yeah. And I'm a big fan of less games today, too. Oh, definitely. Oh my gosh. The two and two was it was great. Oh, it was so cool. We actually got to like enjoy ourselves. By the third game, you're just like dead normally, you know? Oh my gosh. Yeah. And then you have to go back and do it again for another two days. Like, yeah. No way. Um, Mon says, "So, when are you guys going to run Tabletop Titans team tournament?" Four TE's. That would be cool. I definitely wouldn't say no to running events in the future. Yeah, 100%. I think it'll be a great time. It' be It'd be a fantastic time. Yeah. Do you have any thoughts? So, like before we close it out specifically as far as like our team composition goes, like obviously if we kept the same people Yeah. What what do you think for team composition just to get into the current meta just to give like people that want to go to events, what kind of things should they run? What should they run? Yeah. Uh great great question. So, I think part of it is thinking about what is everyone else going to be running? So, there are lots of knights, lots of Imperial Knights. Um lots of Imperial Knights, lots of Chaos Knights. So, definitely expect those to be out there. I will say our our buddy um Alex who I played in the final round with his thousand sons I think had a really rough weekend because he took a very like infantry combined arms kind of list and in teams even in the teams environment it was really difficult for him to get good matchups. So keep that in mind when you're going in knowing what people are going to be playing. You don't need to have lots of good matchups but you need to make sure you have a good a good handful. One of the reasons we didn't have you play Elar as much as you love the faction I think that you would had a worse time. Yeah. So, even again, it's really important to like if you do have a few good matchups, if there are armies that people aren't going to play, Mhm. then they're not good matchups because you'll just never see those armies and anybody else can take those match ups anyways and do well. So, like if your only good matchups are into like Elar or, you know, admech or whatever, right? Yeah, probably look at potentially something else or pivoting into a different archetype of your army because those armies aren't very often taken, especially right now in the meta. Like, they're not going to be taken super much. Yeah, but yeah, it goes back to what Adrian's saying just Yeah, absolutely. Uh, and then we're uh Ruben saying in fives you want at least three take all comers list. Uh Ricky's al but Rick is saying take all comers do kind of suffer in teams. I think you're both saying the same thing in this in this case. So you want take on all comers in the sense that there only five slots. You need to have a good spread of good matchups whereas eight. You can have more bad matchups. But currently the current meta the take all comers list needs to be able to handle skew is the thing. Yeah. You need to be able to deal with those big toughness, big big knights, big monsters, things like that. Yeah. I mean, it wouldn't be uncommon to see Imperial Knights, Chaos Knights, and Death Guard all on the same team, like first saw that in our in our event. So, Exactly. And even like a Thousand Suns list, that's more skew, you know, where it's like the three mutist, Vortex Beast, Magnus, things like that. Um, sorry, getting back to your question. Uh, I think Death Guard is great. I think Imperial Knights is great. Um, I think the guard was off meta, but also was pretty well suited. I we did have to dodge a couple matchups, but um I think I don't know about Grey Knights. I think gray knights would not have What would you do instead of grey knights? Given the matchups that I played into um I played in nekrons twice which is not super great for granite just because again the wraith bricks are very hard for them to deal with. Uh but we didn't have people that really wanted to go into nekrons either. So I think Shane keeps screaming it thousand sons. I think thousand sons is not a bad choice but I also think amper children could potentially be good as well because it does kind of fit that flex role where it can be more all comers. It just needs to avoid like the big things right. Um, so potentially one of the chaos reactions is is even CSM with just more guns, more better. Yeah, it's definitely a hot chaos summer for sure. Like we were talking about like what a great team this would be where it's like the fourth Legions and Chaos Knights. It' be sick. Yeah. Um, and then Sisters was fine. Um, I I honestly didn't feel too bad about Sisters and I don't feel horrible about it. I I did was trying to get him to take Blood Angels, but again, um you have to you have to respect how your players feel about the game because that's going to influence how they play the game, how they approach it, and Jesse was just not feeling like Blood Angels could hang. And regardless of if I feel like that's true or not, he needs to feel like that's true, right? So, I had been pushing for him to do Blood Angels. Um but I think Sisters is a very flexible army. So, but yeah, I think honestly like chaos heavy teams is the way is where it's at right now. Yeah. or even just like four chaos and then Space Marines. Yeah, Space Marines not bad. Space Marines not bad. Uh yeah, back to that earlier point. Um Forest lost to Reuben round one. Reuben was running big vehicles, Space Marines, Assault Centurions, you know, weird Ruben stuff. He's mad man. Stop. Um so that that's a thing. And then Metal has said it's finding a team, coordinating schedules, etc. That's the hardest part of getting teams. Absolutely. 100%. So that is the plus of five five person teams versus eight is it's easier to get together. And then um have we had Atlantic City? That just happened. It's coming up. Anyways, Front Line starting to do things where they have like mercenary programs where you can just sign up as a mercenary to join a team. Trying to make that process a bit easier because there is that awkwardness of like you don't have enough people or you have too many people so someone's not going to be on the team. That's something that I think like people like Front Line can kind of culturally make it easier for people to get together and play, you know, four games of Warhammer. So, yeah. Fantastic, folks. He made no saves round one and lost 12 cavalry. Well, that's like all the Thunder Wolf cavalry. Uh, he probably had 18, but like still that's that's a lot. Jesus. The jail is no longer in jail at that point. Yeah, exactly. Wow. Oh my gosh. Is there any people you know like Scari that change the matrix decision tree for playing into? Um, oh, for sure. Yeah, definitely. Like Ruben is one of those players. Like it doesn't matter what Reuben plays. I mean, uh, I'm pretty sure you're still on Team USA, but Ruben is Team USA or was at least. I'm pretty sure he still is. Uh, but he definitely changes the matrix. Like him playing Grey Knights versus me playing Grey Knights. Not the same game. Yeah, then I would take Grey Knights. Yeah, exactly right. Like whatever he plays, you take, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Shane changes greens to yellows. We did have Bridger day one, Shane day two. So, you know, um 100%. And that's what we we mentioned a little bit at the beginning like broad matrices are great for getting started and if you want a more relaxed uh environment then do that but theoretically if you want the best possible matrix you can you would tailor it to the exact people on that team you know and and their lists and their styles and things like that. So yeah for is another one as well like um I kind of touched on this earlier like with him with the the space wolves like normally probably not the end of the world like we could find a way to deal with it. maybe wouldn't have been a 200 if it wasn't forced, but because it was forced, he changed the whole game plan, right? And because it was Ulus, he changed the plan for the Ne because it was these players knowing their faction, they are like die hard on these faction. They only play these factions. Um, like it definitely changes the way that you approach it. Absolutely. All right, folks. With that, we got to get some lunch before we play our game. Today, I'm playing the brand new Space Wolves, uh, Gladius today. I know. Gross. It's going to be pretty gross, but I'm excited. We got all the new characters and new stuff. It's going to be great. Join us for that at 3 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. Tomorrow is of course episode two of Trench Crusade. We have the public debut of the game during uh 12 p.m. Pacific Standard and then an hour later we'll have the postgame recap just for the members. So if you're interested, become a member today. It's been absolute blast and we got lots and lots and lots of content coming up soon. Uh with that folks, really appreciate y'all taking the time hanging out with us for this last, you know, hour, 20 minutes talking teams. That's going to do it for us. We'll catch you all next time on the tabletop. Bye. [Music] [Music]